W Rani is non-resident fellow at the
center for conflict in humanitarian
studies and he's also co-editor of jelia
it's an online publication covering the
Middle East who's joining us live now
from Montreal thank you very much indeed
uh for being with us Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu describing
this as a tragic accident uh saying it a
grave mistake took place is this an
appropriate response do you
think no of course not and I would point
out that in contrast to previous such
attack where Israel either celebrates
them or doesn't even bother giving uh an
excuse for its actions now it is also
claimed that it is launching an
independent investigation so quite
clearly uh what's called The Diplomatic
tsunami um recent the recent ruling by
the international court of justice the
ICC applications for arrest warrants and
so on are gradually beginning to have an
effect that this same time when we look
at the broader International situation
what we've learned is that US President
Joe Biden's red line is actually a river
of Palestinian blood and that senior us
officials are quite happy um to swim in
it as far as the Europeans are concerned
we've seen quite extensive condemnation
of this attack and denunciation of this
attack but 8 months into this brutal
genocidal campaign I I think simply
making statements becomes entirely
meaningless when this is not paired with
concrete actions to bring such acts
which are taking place on an almost
daily basis to a definitive end with the
increase in uh diplomatic pressure with
the pressure coming from the the recent
rulings from the international court of
justice plus of course from the domestic
pressure that the prime minister is
facing as well do you think that all
we're going to see is just a change in
his language is it going to have any
impact at all on the way that Israel is
carrying out its military operation in
Gaza at this rate absolutely not and I
think one objective of this attack was
to demonstrate that the US actually does
not have a red line and bear in mind um
according to the available reports
Israel used exactly those bombs the
2,000 PB bombs in its attack on T suan
um yesterday these are the same bombs
that Biden had claimed he was suspending
the delivery of to Israel so this is
basically a message you know essentially
raising a middle finger to the ICC to
the icj to the International Community
and making the claim you know Washington
has our back we really don't care about
anything else in terms of the the the
linguistic um gymnastics that we've seen
over the last several months with regard
but particularly in the last couple of
months with with regard to the
operations that are going on in Rafa do
you think that we are going to can see a
continuation of the avoidance of uh
words like a major operation a large
scale operation that that may well be
what we're seeing on the ground but what
but the the frames of reference if you
like are going to be much
milder I I think so um we've seen the
constant shifting of the goalposts now
it also make another point at various
stages we have seen senior us officials
President Biden Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin and others make
statements that appear to be critical of
Israel or laying down boundaries um
regarding what Israel can and cannot do
I don't think we should look at those in
terms of reflecting any change in US
policy what they actually are are um
attempts to respond to Growing domestic
public opposition to Growing Global
criticism of the US's unconditional
support of Israel and in a sense to
divert um to change the subject to give
the appearance that something is
changing in Washington but in effect
nothing happens and these statements are
intended purely for public uh
consumption to mask the continuation of
the precisely same policies with respect
to Israel's genocidal Onslaught in the
Gaza Strip there are a cautious talks
going on with regard to the possibility
of moving towards another set of
potential ceasefire negotiations do you
think given the pressures that you've
been uh
discussing um there might be some
pressure on Israel to move forward to
try to find some sort of um way of
finding some sort of Common Ground uh
with Hamas with the negotiators albe it
that they might not want to make that
public
well I would first look at what happens
in the United Nations security Council
this week um the algerians are
apparently preparing to submit another
draft resolution calling for a ceasefire
if as widely expected the us either
manages to water it down to the point of
making it meaningless or if it fails to
do that and once again casts its veto
that would be a very clear message to
Israel uh to Netanyahu that they can
continue um and that these ceasefire
discussions are really no more than a
fig leaf for Israel's ability to cons to
continue with its campaign in the Gaza
Strip so um we have to look I think not
only at the negotiations themselves but
at the broader context in which they're
being conducted M Rabani we appreciate
you being with us and Al so thank you
very much indeed for your time thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer